---
layout: post
title:  "Ford v Ferrari (2019) – 3/5"
date:   2020-10-18 10:19:23 +0100
categories: action biography drama
permalink: "/:title"
---

In this action packed movie, loosely based on the events leading up to the 1966 Le Mans race, we see the Ford Motor Company trying to gain notoriety in the racing world. On another level we see car designers and drivers searching for perfection in the design of the winning car.

The director James Mangold managed to create an entertaining movie in which most of the rules of screenwriting have been given the respect they need. We have multiple twists, antagonists, betrayal and suspenseful racing all throughout the film. The movie is also supported by good acting from all the main and supporting characters involved. That said, the American classic underdog story falls a bit short on it’s face when race after race is won in the last lap, while leading up to the European competition. Winning against all odds makes us root the protagonists, but when the victory is overwhelming, Ford taking the first 3 places at Le Mans 1966, it is a bit harder to keep the tension, and indeed the last act is not what it is supposed to be in classic action movies.

One of the screenwriting rules that was hard to fulfill here, although the writers certainly tried, is that the antagonist has to be a great challenge for the hero, so that achieving victory will give the biggest amount of satisfaction for the viewer. As expected that is hard to achieve when Ford swept the competition in that race. That brings us to the creation of an artificial battle created by the writers on top of the Ford v Ferrari competition, which also has lengthened the movie unnecessarily.

We have two pairs of teams competing against each other. The first couple is in the title, Ford competes against Ferrari to win the famous race. On the other hand the car designers led by Carroll Shelby (Matt Damon) and driver Ken Miles (Christian Bale) are competing with the corporate snakes that are around Henry Ford II, being more interested in the marketing aspect than in achieving perfection in car design. I understand why this is in the movie, because having a movie this long, at 2.5 hours, it is hard to keep suspenseful if the only battle is at the end of the movie when the real race takes place. I think this whole subplot could have been avoided altogether and that would have made the movie a lot shorter.

While the car designers in the movie got close to perfection, creating a car that had no rival in that competition, the movie did not manage to do the same. With that said, it is still an entertaining classical American underdog story, although the underdog aspect was not really there and the movie is too long.

Trailer - [https://youtu.be/zyYgDtY2AMY](https://youtu.be/zyYgDtY2AMY)
