---
layout: post
title:  "Ad Astra (2019) – 2.5/5"
date:   2020-11-01 10:19:23 +0100
categories: drama mystery sci-fi
permalink: "/:title"
---

We have seen a lot of space dramas in the last ten years, [Gravity (2013)](https://youtu.be/OiTiKOy59o4) and [Interstellar (2014)](https://youtu.be/zSWdZVtXT7E) come to mind of course. Ad Astra falls a bit short in comparison. A daring astronaut is a on a crucial mission to save earth (what else?) and find his father who has been missing in action after a mission to Neptune three decades before the events of the movie.

While there is no fault with the main character, Roy McBride played by Brad Pitt, or with his father played by Tommy Lee Jones, the plot just feels flat. The main protagonist struggles with the decisions that his father made in pursuing science and his mission instead of being close to his family and his son. An accomplished astronaut himself, Roy embarks on this journey with the hope that his father might still be alive, and as his son could have the best chance of convincing him to stop whatever experiment he was doing near Neptune and save humanity. Here is also the point where the plot starts making less and less sense.

[SPOILERS] As the solution to the problem that threatened earth was to bomb and destroy the space mission that went to Neptune 30 years ago, the whole movie and adventure of going to that space station in person does not make a lot of sense. Our main character jeopardizes the safety of humanity for a chance of getting closure with his father who might or might not be alive on that station. On top of that when he returns to earth after killing a lot of other people in his adventure, he is hailed as a hero. It does not make a lot of sense and I presume this is the reason why audiences did not like it, because the cinematography, music and most everything else were actually pretty good.

At the center of Ad Astra is the struggle to get closure in the son father relationship. The whole trip that Roy takes to then Moon, Mars and Neptune, feels like a selfish Hail Mary shot at getting to understand why his father left him, thus understanding why his life has evolved the way it has and maybe even trying to fix it somehow and win back his wife. It does not work as expected unfortunately because the main character is hard to care about, and we dive into how he can save himself before we even have a chance to care about him. The fact that he puts the whole journey in danger, for a chance at personal gain from meeting his father is of course not helping. My advice would be to stick with Gravity, The Martian or Interstellar if you like this genre.

Trailer - [https://youtu.be/P6AaSMfXHbA](https://youtu.be/P6AaSMfXHbA)
