---
layout: post
title:  "The Cremator (1969) – 4.5/5"
date:   2020-10-05 10:19:23 +0100
categories: crime drama
permalink: "/:title"
---

What starts out as an innocent but creepy movie, quickly turns into one of the most macabre social commentary films that I have seen. The movie by Juraj Herz follows a family man, cremator by trade, with his particular ideas on life and death, as is expected from a human that has to deal with death on a constant basis.

Taking place in Prague, just at the beginning of the second world war, I could not help but notice the distinct central European character of the movie and of the figures that either deal with the death and cremation of a loved one, or prepare for death themselves. In a way it reminded me of the Grand Budapest Hotel, but as a spectacle of macabre. Karel Kopfrkingl works at the crematorium and is the stereotypical interwar middle class man, one of the last of the romantic era that ended with WWII. He loves his wife and his children, prides himself with knowledge and love of art, has friends over for dinner and loves to talk politics, but also visits the local brothel and does deals with morphine addicts for his self benefit. He is also obsessed with the Buddhist idea of reincarnation and of the Dalai Lama, having a book that he often cites when delivering speeches for the soon to be cremated.

Nothing seems out of the ordinary up until this point and the repeated theme that cremation frees the death from the suffering of the world seems to be more of an advertisement for his business than a personal belief. This quickly and grotesquely changes as the Nazis invade Czechoslovakia and the main character is plunged in a world where the possibility of moving his obsession with cremation to an industrial, mechanized phase takes over his love for his non-Aryan family. What the movie achieves in a masterful way is that the grotesque I so often cite in this review, does not come from the death, the killing, the morgue or the cremation, but from the transformation from normal human being to absolute monster that is willing to kill without any remorse, even firmly believing to do it as a favor for the killed.

What Jewish friends and collaborators he had, quickly transform in possible chips he can use in gaining more influence with the Nazi party, until he can step into his natural role of soul liberator and cremator of bodies on a what we are led to believe will be a concentration camp. Tension slowly builds up in the movie in an steady fashion, and what important plot twists happen along the way do not release any of it, but only continue to slowly push it forward.

I wonder if the decision to use Buddhism was influenced by the political regime of Czechoslovakia at that time, communist countries being strictly atheist or rather non-christian. Another great unanswered question about the movie and about the brutality of Europe at that time is if are killers inherently born as killers or can simple political triggers and the possibility of murdering without noticeable consequences turn us into beasts?

Trailer - [https://youtu.be/yMOT553AyAE](https://youtu.be/yMOT553AyAE)
