---
layout: post
title:  "Quit your job"
date:   2021-04-18 10:11:00 +0100
categories: [short story]
permalink: "/:title"
---

There is a common desire among my friends, a dream to stop working. A dream to be independent, to not have a job. Less money would be ok as long as we would not have to do something that we do not want for 40 50 60 hours every week. Not many try to do something about this. The closest most might get to this is to start a business. You might end up working even more than before, but at least you gain a lot of independence. That also depends on how you see it. You change your boss for your customers, and a secure paycheck for extra stress.

There are many youtube channels showing how life can be lived on the road or in a remote cabin. There are also farmers who to this day live as farmers have always lived, dependent on the land, dependent on the weather, but other than that, they seem to be freer than the regular office worker. You would have to get you hands dirty to be a farmer. The same way Neo gave up a cushy life for the true life in the Matrix.

For me, exchanging one job for another, which I also might hate, like farming, does not sound like such a great deal. My big independence dream ticket was always some kind of financial independence and living from the interested of my saving or better said from the dividends my investments might make on the stock market. Another option would be working in a creative field of some kind. Writing, podcasting, voice acting? I have been exploring these dreams for years now. I just bought a microphone and I play with it. Like with everything in life, it seemed easy but it is not. If it was, everybody would be living in the south of Italy doing 2 or 3 hours of voice acting a day while enjoying life for the rest of the day. Podcasting is a field that has a lot of money at the top, and zero money for the rest. It is just not there. Youtube videos are just as complicated as podcasting with the extra difficulty of handling video editing as well as audio editing. And writing? Oh we all love writing. Writing movies, writing plays, writing books and writing speeches. All can be incredibly satisfying but your best bet is to be some kind of copy writer for some corporate websites. Still sounds better than an office job. You could do that job from anywhere. You don't even need a good internet connection to upload text. Doesn't even sound that stressful.

Why even have these desires?

There is a shop in Eindhoven selling puzzles, board games and such. There are not many customers in that shop. The owner is also the only employee. He sits around the shop all day, watches youtube, posting in online forums related to puzzles and boardgames. He generally just delves into what seems to be his passion. Does he make a fortune out of it? Surely not. Is it a glamorous career? Not really. Is it stressful? Probably, as rents are expensive and online retailers are killing all the small shop. But the real question is if he is happy doing it? He is, he looks like a little child when he talks about his passion. He breathes boardgames, he plays them all the time, he knows everything he can about them and can't wait for the boardgames conventions around Europe. Not even this situation seals the deal for me. I know myself, if I follow my biggest passion and focus on that like this store owner, I will get bored of them and start hating everything related to it after a couple of years.

In the end, what are we really looking for? What does that independence really mean? Is it financial and stress related or is it the time that we can use for ourselves? Would a person that does not need to work and has full financial freedom for the rest of his life still do something productive, but that would be more important to him than his previous job? Human rights activism instead of an office clerk job? Or is our desire hard coded in our genes and sleeping like a cat in the sun is the dream that we are searching for?
